
=head1 NAME

B<emagic> - automatically convert Russian text into I<koi8-r>

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<emagic> C<[-v|-q] [-n depth] [-o outfile] file1 file2 ...>
B<emagic> C<-w>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<Encoding Magic Version 1.1> tries to determine encoding of given Russian
text and convert it into base encoding of I<koi8-r>. It handles the cases
of incorrect encodings (for example, when I<windows-1251> -> I<koi8-r>
conversion was mistakenly applied to file in MSDOS cp866 encoding).

The program tries all combinations of consequtive conversions between known
encoding up to specified depth (2 by default) and uses a weight fuction based
on character distribution and some frequent words to determine the correct
one.

The following encodings are known:

=over 4

=item * I<koi8-r> - UNIX koi8-r encoding

=item * I<windows-1251> - Microsoft Windows(R) code page 1251

=item * I<dos866> - MS-DOS(R) code page 866

=item * I<iso8859-5> - ISO 8859-5 Cyrillic

=back

The I<ASCII> characters are not changed during all the conversions.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-v> Produce verbose debug output to screen

=item B<-q> Be quiet - no output to screen at all

=item S<B<-n> depth> Try conversions up to I<depth> levels deep.

=item S<B<-o> outname> Write all output to file I<outname>.
If B<-o> is not specified, the input files are rewritten.

=back




=head1 COPYRIGHT

Encoding Magic is copyright (c) 1997 by Sergey Gershtein.

This is free software, and you are welcome to redistribute it
under certain conditions; see file B<COPYING> in original package for details
Feel free to send email to B<sg@mplik.ru> with your questions and comments
You can get all the Encoding Magic source files from
ftp://ftp.mplik.ru/pub/unix/utils/emagic_1.1.tgz

=head1 BUGS

The result of applying B<emagic> to non-Russian text is unpredictable.

If parts of input file are in different encodings of Cyrillic the program
gets confused and the output is again unpredictable.


